.\" shield.conf - pam-shield configuration file
.\" Copyright 2010-2012 Jonathan Niehof
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.TH SHIELD.CONF 5 "11 May 2012" "pam_shield 0.9.6"
.SH NAME
shield.conf \- pam_shield configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /etc/security/shield.conf
is the configuration file for PAM module pam_shield, which locks out
remote attackers trying password guessing.


.SH OPTIONS

.HP
.B debug
[on|off]
.br
Log (or do not log) debugging information via
.BR syslog (3).
.HP
.B block
[all-users|unknown-users]
.br
Block all users, or only unknown users. Whether users are "known" is determined from
.BR getpwnam (3)
.HP
.B allow_missing_dns
[yes|no]
.br
If no, reject any connection that comes from a numerical IP address with no DNS
name (as returned by
.BR pam_get_item (3)
with
.I item_type
set to PAM_RHOST).
.HP
.B allow_missing_reverse
[yes|no]
.br
If no, reject any connection that comes from a host with no reverse DNS
entry.
.HP
.B allow
.I hostname
.br
Host or network to whitelist. These hosts are passed through with no checks or
logging. Multiple
.B allow
lines are permitted.
.I hostname
may be IP address, hostname, network/netmask, or network in CIDR
format.
.HP
.B db
.I filename
.br
Database file where login attempts are stored.
.HP
.B trigger_cmd
.I command
.br
Command to run to block/unblock a host. See
.BR shield-trigger (8)
and
.BR shield-trigger-iptables (8)
for two examples.
.HP
.B max_conns
.I n
.br
Host will be blocked if more than
.I n
connection attempts from one host in
.B interval
time.
.HP
.B interval
.I n
.br
Host blocked if more than
.B max_conns
attempts in
.I n
seconds. Instead of seconds, suffix may be used: s for seconds, m minutes,
h hours, d days, w weeks, M months (30 days), y years.
.HP
.B retention
.I n
.br
Record of connection attempts retained for
.I n
seconds. Suffixes may be used as in
.B interval.
Each host is checked for expiration when it attempts to connect, and the
entire database is checked whenever 
.BR shield-purge (8)
is run (by default, once a day).

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.HP
.I /etc/security/shield.conf
Configuration file for
.B pam-shield

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shield-purge (8),
.BR shield-trigger (8),
.BR shield-trigger-iptables (8)

.SH AUTHORS
pam-shield was written by and copyright 2007 Walter de Jong \%<walter@heiho.net>. This manpage copyright 2010-2012 Jonathan Niehof
\%<jtniehof@gmail.com>.
